PGNparser -- May, 2015


# Introduction #

This tool parses PGN files, extracts information from them, filters
games and generate LaTeX files that can be processed with `pdflatex`
with specific collections of games.

While it can be used for any PGN files, it is specifically designed to
parse and process the PGN files generated by http://www.ficsgames.org

# Install #

First, clone the repository with:

    hg clone ssh://hg@bitbucket.org/clinares/pgnparser

from within your `$GOPATH/src/` directory. To compile `pgnparser`:

    $ go build

Finally, install the binary with:

    $ go install

And you are ready to execute:

    $ pgnparser --help

anywhere from your filesystem provided that the environment variable
`$PATH` contains the path to your `$GOPATH/bin/` directory


# Usage #

`pgnparser` has a mandatory argument that shall be given with `--file`
and shall consist of a path to a PGN file. This distribution comes
with various PGN files in the directory `examples/`. If no more
directives are given, `pgnparser` prints out a text table with the
headers of all games found in the PGN file.

It also recognizes two optional arguments: `--template` and
`--select`.

`--template` should be given with a path to a LaTeX template that is
used to automatically generate a LaTeX file with the transcription of
all games found in the PGN file. `pgnparser` acknowledges placeholders
that are conveniently substituted to produce the desired output. All
tags are of the form `%name`. Every *tag name* found in the header of
a game can be used as a placeholder (e.g., `%Date` is substituted by
the value of the tag `Date`). Additionally:

 * `%moves` is substituted by a list of the moves of a game.
 * `%moves_comments` is substituted by the list of the moves of every
   game with annotations and information of the elapsed move times if
   available.

`--select` can be used to filter games. If given, `pgnparser` only
accept those games that match the given query. A query consists of a
*logical expression* that relates *relational expressions* which can
consist of either constants (integer or string) or variables. As in
the case of the LaTeX templates, variables are preceded by the
character '%' and any tag appearing in the header of a PGN game can be
used as a variable. To obtain more information about expressions use
the directive `--help-expressions`.

`pgnparser` provides additional information with the commands `--help`
and `--version`


## Example ##

The following command reads the contents of the file
`examples/mygames.pgn` and parse its contents. It shows then some
information on the standard output (note that values can be given
either using `=` or not):

```
#!sh

$ ./pgnparser --file=examples/mygames.pgn
```


The output shown is then of the form:

    |  DBGameNo  | Date                | White                     | Black                     | ECO | Time  | Moves | Result |
    +------------+---------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----+-------+-------+--------+
    |  375431273 | 2015.05.04 17:18:00 | samotnik           (1618) | clinares           (1520) | C20 | 180+0 |    60 |    1-0 |
    |  375458181 | 2015.05.05 11:21:00 | clinares           (1514) | walls              (1532) | C00 | 180+0 |    67 |    ½-½ |
    |  375505558 | 2015.05.06 14:10:00 | indianpool         (1582) | clinares           (1524) | A40 | 180+0 |    26 |    1-0 |
    |  375529641 | 2015.05.07 05:54:00 | clinares           (1517) | tsoymen            (1575) | D00 | 180+0 |    10 |    0-1 |
    |  375529748 | 2015.05.07 05:54:00 | tsoymen            (1582) | clinares           (1510) | A40 | 180+0 |    34 |    0-1 |
    +------------+---------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----+-------+-------+--------+

    # Games found: 5

If `--select` is used, then attention is restricted only to those
games that match the given query. For example:

```
#!sh

$ ./pgnparser --file examples/mygames.pgn
              --select "%White='tsoymen' and %Black='clinares'"
```

returns the last game in the table shown above.

If `--template` is given then a LaTeX file using the specified
template is automatically generated. For example (file
`templates/simple.tex` is included in this distribution):

```
#!sh

$ ./pgnparser --file examples/mygames.pgn
              --select "%White='tsoymen' and %Black='clinares'"
              --template templates/simple.tex
```

will generate a file called `mygames.pgn.tex` in the directory
`examples/`. The following image shows the only page generated:

![View of the PDF file](images/sample-1.png)

Of course, LaTeX files reproduce an arbitrary number of games: all of
those accepted by the filter given, if any, or all games in the PGN
file if no filter is provided.

If a different template is used (`templates/sample-comments.tex`) the
output differs:

![View of the PDF file](images/sample-2.png)


# License #

PGNparser is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

PGNparser is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with PGNparser.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


# Author #

Carlos Linares Lopez <carlos.linares@uc3m.es>

